ULTIMATE FANTASY SPACE BATTLE IV

GENRE: Turn-based strategy

CONCEPT: Two armies consisting of pop-culture warriors wage war on a battlefield

HOW IT WORKS: Players take turns to move characters across a grid. When two opposing characters meet, they fight.

Each character has HP, MP, Defence, Damage and Move Distance. They can use Attack, Magic or Item.

When the player selects Attack, they must Do Something to complete the Attack.
  - some attacks are easier to do than others, depending on the character, but all attacks are the same basic mechanic
  - an Attack can only take place between two adjacent characters

When the player selects Magic, they must Do Something to complete the Spell
  - some Spells do Damage, others Heal
  - Magic can be used from 2 grid cells away

Items are picked up on the battlefield
  - Items can either restore HP, MP, increase Def or DMG

The winner is the player who destroys all the other player's characters

THE PLAYER JOURNEY:

Opening Screen
  - Enter to Start
  - Rules

Character Select
  - Each player takes it in turns to build an army of X number of warriors from a rosta of Y

Battle
  -  Players take it in turns to move around the map, position themselves and fight

GAME LOGIC:

All takes place on a grid - has to be quite large: 20 x 20? - character dependent
Move distance is shown by turning the grid squares flashing white
Move characters around using arrow keys
Hit enter to bring up menu to select Attack, Magic, Item or Wait (Defence?)

Attack - mini-game: anagram solver? Remember the combination of arrows? Click on the correct block? All with time-limit
Magic - mini-game: hit keys in the right order?

If Attack or Spell is successful:
  - DMG is done to the other character with amount depending on Attacker's DMG stat and Opposition's DEF stat
  - HP decreases an appropriate amount for defender, MP decreases for Attacker (if Spell cast)

  - If character dies, they are removed from the map

WHAT I NEED TO DO:
  Move characters around the map
    - characters can not occupy the same grid space
    - characters have to be able to attack or cast magic dependent on nearby characters (+ or - grid x/y pos and team: opposite)

  Swap between Player 1 and Player 2
  Let characters do actions depending on what their surroundings are
  Create minigames for Attack/Spell
  Set endgame conditions
  Create sprite characters

PLAN:

  Game objects:

    Character select: 10 characters

    Map: grid array of 20 x 20

    Teams: player
    Characters: name, hp, mp, def, dmg, team

  ORDER TO DO THINGS:

  1. Create grid
  2. Move character around and within grid - basic colour block to start
    2a. Create movement stats for characters
  3. Create two teams on grid
    3a. - Create character objects
  4. Switch between player 1 and player 2 at end of turn
  5. Get collisions working between characters
  6. Detect distance between opposing characters
  7. Create HP stats for characters
  8. Create DMG stats for characters
  9. Allow Attacker to successfully Attack Defender (no minigame)
  10. Deplete HP by DMG amount
  11. Allow Attacker to kill Defender with Attack (HP === 0)
    11a. Remove Defender from Map
  12. Create MP stats for characters
  13. Allow Attacker to cast Spell on Defender
  14. Deplete Defender's HP by Spell DMG amount
  15. Deplete Attacker's MP by Spell Cost amount
  16. Allow Attacker to increase HP self with Spell
  17. Allow Attacker to increase TeamMate's HP with Spell
  18. Create DEF stats for characters
  19. Allow Attack to do varying DMG dependent on Defender's DEF stats
  20. Create Mini-Games
  21. Incorporate Mini-Games into Attack and Magic
  22. Create Items
  23. Items have to be generated randomly on battlefield every X number of turns
  24. Items can either
      - Heal
      - Increase DEF
      - Increase DMG
  25. Create Start Screen
  26. Create Character Select screen and rosta of sprite characters
  27. Write rules
  28. Do sound effects
  29. Create themed maps

BONUSES:

  -Characters have special attacks or abilities
  -Items can be left on the Map to sabotage others
